README.md, before:

Purpose
===
A simple trading equity trading model on Interactive Brokers' API dealing with (pseudo) high-frequency data studies.

![alt text](https://github.com/jamesmawm/High-Frequency-Trading-Model-with-IB/blob/master/output/run_02_screenshot.png?raw=true "Chart output")

Requirements
===

- Python 3.7
- IB Trader Workstation Build 973.2
- IB paper or live trading account
- (Optional) Docker and docker-compose

What's New
===

*19 Jun 2019*

- Version 3.0 released
- `ibpy` library is dropped in favour of the newer `ib_insync` library.
- The same code logic is ported over to use the features of `ib_insync`, compatible with Python 3.7. Includes various code cleanup.
- Dropped `matplotlib` charting in favour of headless runtime inside Docker.


*14 Jun 2019*

- Version 2.0 released
- Merged pull request from: https://github.com/chicago-joe/IB_PairsTrading_Algo
    
    Thanks to chicago-joe for updating to work with Python 3.
    
    As this is only a compatibility update, there are many outdated components and the trading model is quite unlikely to be working as intended.
    

*8 Jun 2015*
- Version 1.0 released
- Refactor and conform to PEP8 standards
- New chart display with 4 subplots


Setting up
===

## Running on local Python console 

- If you have Python 3.7, install the requirements:
    
    pip install -r requirements.txt

- In IB Trader Workstation (TWS), go to Configuration > Api > Settings and:

    - enable ActiveX and Socket Clients
    - check the port number you will be using
    - If using Docker, uncheck "Allow connections from localhost only" and enter the machine IP running TWS to "Trusted IPs".

- Run `main.py` to start the model:

    python main.py
    

Key Concepts
===
At the present moment, this model utilizes statistical arbitrage incorporating these methodologies:
- Bootstrapping the model with historical data to derive usable strategy parameters
- Resampling inhomogeneous time series to homogeneous time series
- Selection of highly-correlated stock pair
- The ability to short on one stock and long the other.
- Using volatility ratio to detect up or down trend.
- Fair valuation of security using beta, or the mean over some past interval.
- One pandas DataFrame to store prices, another one to store indicator values.

Other functionalities:
- Generate trade signals and place buy/sell market orders based on every incoming tick data.
- Re-evaluating beta every some interval in seconds.

And greatly inspired by these papers:
- MIT - Developing high-frequency equities trading model 
  @ http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/59122
- SMU - Profiting from mean-reverting yield-curve trading strategies
  @ http://ink.library.smu.edu.sg/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=3488&context=lkcsb_research

And book:
- Introduction to High-Frequency Finance
  @ http://www.amazon.com/Introduction-High-Frequency-Finance-Ramazan-Gen%C3%A7ay/dp/0122796713

Wrote a Book
===
I wrote a book titled 'Mastering Python for Finance', discussing the interfacing of IbPy to
Interactive Brokers step by step. A number of other topics such as analytics, algorithmic trading ideas, big data and
financial theory are also discussed. You might find it useful.
It is available on major sales channels including Amazon, Safari Online and Barnes & Noble,
in paperback, Kindle and ebook.
Get it from:
- http://www.amazon.com/Mastering-Python-Finance-James-Weiming/dp/1784394513
- https://www.packtpub.com/big-data-and-business-intelligence/mastering-python-finance

Source codes and table of contents on GitHub:
- https://github.com/jamesmawm/Mastering-Python-for-Finance-source-codes

Check out these awesome books too:
- Python for Finance by Dr. Yves Hilpisch: http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920032441.do
- Python for Quants. Volume I. by Dr. Pawel Lachowicz: http://www.quantatrisk.com/python-for-quants-volume-i/

Wrote a Gateway
===
What about trading futures? *Psst* I've got you covered.

Simply called 'The Gateway', it is a C# application that exposes a socket and
public API method calls for interfacing Python with futures markets including CME,
CBOT, NYSE, Eurex and ICE.

More information on my GitHub: https://github.com/hftstrat/The-Gateway-code-samples


Future Enhancements
===
I would love to extend this model in the unforeseeable future:
- Extending to more than 2 securities and trade on optimum prices
- Generate trade signals based on correlation and co-integration
- Using PCA for next-period evaluation
- Include vector auto-regressions
- Account for regime shifts (trending or mean-reverting states)
- Account for structural breaks
- Using EMA kernels instead of a rectangular one
- Add in alphas(P/E, B/P ratios) and Kalman filter prediction

Disclaimer
===
- Any securities listed is not a solicitation to trade
- This model has not been proven to be profitable in a live account,
and I will not be responsible for any outcome of your trades.
Should you be profitable, thank you notes are welcomed.

Is this HFT?
===
Sure, I had some questions "how is this high-frequency" or "not for UHFT" or "this is not front-running". Let's take a closer look at these definitions:
- High-frequency finance: the studying of incoming tick data arriving at high frequencies,
say hundreds of ticks per second. High frequency finance aims to derive stylized facts from high frequency signals.
- High-frequency trading: the turnover of positions at high frequencies;
positions are typically held at most in seconds, which amounts to hundreds of trades per second.

This models aims to incorporate the above two functions and present a simplistic view to traders who wish to automate their trades, get started in Python trading or use a free trading platform.


Final Notes
========================
- I haven't come across any complete high-frequency trading model lying around, so here's one to get started off the ground and running.
- This model has never been used with a real account. All testing was done in demo account only.
- The included strategy parameters are theoretical ideal conditions, which have not been adjusted for back-tested results.
- This project is still a work in progress. A good model could take months or even years!

Email stuff here: jamesmawm@gmail.com

Commit message:

Update readme for docker usage

README.md, after:

Purpose
===
A simple trading equity trading model on Interactive Brokers' API dealing with (pseudo) high-frequency data studies.

![alt text](https://github.com/jamesmawm/High-Frequency-Trading-Model-with-IB/blob/master/output/run_02_screenshot.png?raw=true "Chart output")

Requirements
===

- Python 3.7
- IB Trader Workstation Build 973.2
- IB paper or live trading account
- (Optional) Docker and docker-compose

What's New
===

*19 Jun 2019*

- Version 3.0 released
- `ibpy` library is dropped in favour of the newer `ib_insync` library.
- The same code logic is ported over to use the features of `ib_insync`, compatible with Python 3.7. Includes various code cleanup.
- Dropped `matplotlib` charting in favour of headless running inside Docker.


*14 Jun 2019*

- Version 2.0 released
- Merged pull request from: https://github.com/chicago-joe/IB_PairsTrading_Algo
    
    Thanks to chicago-joe for updating to work with Python 3.
    
    As this is only a compatibility update, there are many outdated components and the trading model is quite unlikely to be working as intended.
    

*8 Jun 2015*
- Version 1.0 released
- Refactor and conform to PEP8 standards
- New chart display with 4 subplots


Setting up
===

## Running on a local Python console 

- If you have Python 3.7, install the requirements:
    
        pip install -r requirements.txt

- In IB Trader Workstation (TWS), go to **Configuration** > **Api** > **Settings** and:

    - enable ActiveX and Socket Clients
    - check the port number you will be using
    - If using Docker, uncheck "Allow connections from localhost only" and enter the machine IP running TWS to "Trusted IPs".

- Update `main.py` with the required parameters and run the model with the command:

        python main.py
    
## Running from a Docker container

A Docker container helps to automatically build your running environment and isolate changes, all in just a few simple commands!
You can run this trading model in headless model remotely.

- Ensure your machine has docker and docker-compose installed. Build a running image:

        docker-compose build
        
- Update the parameters in `docker-compose.yml`. I've set the `TWS_HOST` value in my environment variable. This is the IP address of my remote machine running TWS. Or, you can just key in the value directly there. Then, run the image as a container:

        docker-compose up
        
    To run  in headless mode, simple add the detached command `-d`, like this:
    
        docker-compose up -d
        
    In headless model, you would have to start and stop the containers manually.

Key Concepts
===
At the present moment, this model utilizes statistical arbitrage incorporating these methodologies:
- Bootstrapping the model with historical data to derive usable strategy parameters
- Resampling inhomogeneous time series to homogeneous time series
- Selection of highly-correlated stock pair
- The ability to short on one stock and long the other.
- Using volatility ratio to detect up or down trend.
- Fair valuation of security using beta, or the mean over some past interval.
- One pandas DataFrame to store prices, another one to store indicator values.

Other functionalities:
- Generate trade signals and place buy/sell market orders based on every incoming tick data.
- Re-evaluating beta every some interval in seconds.

And greatly inspired by these papers:
- MIT - Developing high-frequency equities trading model 
  @ http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/59122
- SMU - Profiting from mean-reverting yield-curve trading strategies
  @ http://ink.library.smu.edu.sg/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=3488&context=lkcsb_research

And book:
- Introduction to High-Frequency Finance
  @ http://www.amazon.com/Introduction-High-Frequency-Finance-Ramazan-Gen%C3%A7ay/dp/0122796713

Wrote a Book
===
I wrote a book titled 'Mastering Python for Finance', discussing the interfacing of IbPy to
Interactive Brokers step by step. A number of other topics such as analytics, algorithmic trading ideas, big data and
financial theory are also discussed. You might find it useful.
It is available on major sales channels including Amazon, Safari Online and Barnes & Noble,
in paperback, Kindle and ebook.
Get it from:
- http://www.amazon.com/Mastering-Python-Finance-James-Weiming/dp/1784394513
- https://www.packtpub.com/big-data-and-business-intelligence/mastering-python-finance

Source codes and table of contents on GitHub:
- https://github.com/jamesmawm/Mastering-Python-for-Finance-source-codes

Check out these awesome books too:
- Python for Finance by Dr. Yves Hilpisch: http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920032441.do
- Python for Quants. Volume I. by Dr. Pawel Lachowicz: http://www.quantatrisk.com/python-for-quants-volume-i/

Wrote a Gateway
===
What about trading futures? *Psst* I've got you covered.

Simply called 'The Gateway', it is a C# application that exposes a socket and
public API method calls for interfacing Python with futures markets including CME,
CBOT, NYSE, Eurex and ICE.

More information on my GitHub: https://github.com/hftstrat/The-Gateway-code-samples


Future Enhancements
===
I would love to extend this model in the unforeseeable future:
- Extending to more than 2 securities and trade on optimum prices
- Generate trade signals based on correlation and co-integration
- Using PCA for next-period evaluation
- Include vector auto-regressions
- Account for regime shifts (trending or mean-reverting states)
- Account for structural breaks
- Using EMA kernels instead of a rectangular one
- Add in alphas(P/E, B/P ratios) and Kalman filter prediction

Disclaimer
===
- Any securities listed is not a solicitation to trade
- This model has not been proven to be profitable in a live account,
and I will not be responsible for any outcome of your trades.
Should you be profitable, thank you notes are welcomed.

Is this HFT?
===
Sure, I had some questions "how is this high-frequency" or "not for UHFT" or "this is not front-running". Let's take a closer look at these definitions:
- High-frequency finance: the studying of incoming tick data arriving at high frequencies,
say hundreds of ticks per second. High frequency finance aims to derive stylized facts from high frequency signals.
- High-frequency trading: the turnover of positions at high frequencies;
positions are typically held at most in seconds, which amounts to hundreds of trades per second.

This models aims to incorporate the above two functions and present a simplistic view to traders who wish to automate their trades, get started in Python trading or use a free trading platform.


Final Notes
========================
- I haven't come across any complete high-frequency trading model lying around, so here's one to get started off the ground and running.
- This model has never been used with a real account. All testing was done in demo account only.
- The included strategy parameters are theoretical ideal conditions, which have not been adjusted for back-tested results.
- This project is still a work in progress. A good model could take months or even years!

Email stuff here: jamesmawm@gmail.com
